Updated November 2025
Brand voice,
messaging and style
toolkit
Version 2.0

-- 1 of 19 --

Contents
A reminder of our mission
Brand voice (how we communicate)
Messaging toolkit
Talking about who we are
Talking about our resources
Talking about our curriculum plans
Talking about our AI tools
Talking about pupils using Oak
Style guide: A-Z
(covers styling of grammar and common phrases)
2

-- 2 of 19 --

Our mission
To improve pupil outcomes and close the disadvantage
gap by supporting teachers to teach, and pupils to
access, a high-quality curriculum.
3

-- 3 of 19 --

Brand voice
The principles we follow in our communication and
guidance on how to apply Oak’s tone.
4

-- 4 of 19 --

How we communicate with our audience
Our aim is to be a respected, relevant and trusted national resource for the country’s
teachers. Everything we say, and the way in which we say it, reflects this.
We follow three key principles when representing Oak in writing and presentation:
1. We empower teachers.
We exist for teachers and pupils, and everything we do is to support them. We’re humble
and focus not on what we’re doing, but on how we can help teachers and learners. We’re
supportive, inclusive, never judgemental.
Quick tips on how to apply this in communication:
● Remember, we exist for teachers. We do great stuff, but all of it is for them. Pivot
your content to celebrate them – not us and our achievements.
● Make it about them. Reread what you’ve written. How many ‘we’s and ‘our’s can you
change to ‘you’ and ‘your’s?
● Meet them on their level. We’re innovators, and we’re inviting teachers along with
us. We should be able to share knowledge and expertise as if we’re having a
conversation in the staffroom.
2. We’re personable.
We’re a professional, innovative, high-performing organisation – but we’re an organisation
made up of humans, and our tone is always approachable, friendly, positive, and light. We
understand the demands of teaching, and we’re realistic and understanding about that.
We’re never reserved: remember, we’re here to openly impart our collective knowledge and
expertise with the sector.
Quick tips on how to apply this in communication:
● Talk in the first/second person. You, us, we, our. Not Oak this, Oak that.
● Write how you’d speak. Reread what you’ve written. Is it something you’d say aloud
in a casual staffroom conversation? That’s the tone we’re going for.
● Keep it inclusive and accessible. We’re a professional, expert organisation, and we
make that known by imparting our expertise; not by reserving it. We make things easy
to understand – like a teacher delivering a lesson to their pupils.
5

-- 5 of 19 --

3. We’re clear and direct.
We use simple words, because jargon complicates conversation and limits understanding.
We get straight to the point and keep sentences short and digestible. We opt for
contractions e.g.
we’re instead of
we are; and we don’t over-formalise, e.g. we use
make sure
instead of
ensure,
so instead of
therefore. You can always cut words. Wherever you can, do.
Quick tips on how to apply this in communication:
● Use simple words. Avoid jargon. Use accessible vocabulary. Always opt for
contractions.
● Get to the point. You don’t always need to set the scene with an introduction;
teachers are already living in the scene. Jump in with the key message.
● Keep it short. You can always cut words. Where you can, do.
Talking to our non-core audience
The education sector and stakeholders
Teachers are our core audience, but we of course also work with unions, subject bodies,
partners, and education leaders. We understand that we have a national responsibility and
interest, and sometimes we need to speak in a formal tone. We continue to be clear, concise
and straightforward.
Pupils and parents
Although we have a dedicated space for pupils, we expect these pupils to be guided by
schools, teachers, or parents; so we don’t differ in our tone.
We occasionally talk to parents when responding to their queries. We frame conversations
around supporting their child’s learning while still being led by their school and teachers. We
know many parents use us for home-schooling, though we don’t advocate it.
6

-- 6 of 19 --

Messaging toolkit
A collection of approved messaging to help you
communicate confidently and consistently about our
work.
7

-- 7 of 19 --

Talking about who we are
Opening statement
We’re Oak, and we want to give you back hours of your week. We do that by giving you
free resources and tools to help you prepare high-quality teaching for all your pupils.
Expanded description
Whether you’re creating new lessons, refreshing your approach, or solving a last-minute
challenge, our resources give you a strong foundation that means you get there faster.
Created by UK curriculum and subject experts, they’re quality-assured and tested by
teachers. They can support planning at every level – from curriculum design to lessons.
And they include helpful materials for the classroom, such as quizzes, worksheets and
slides.
You absolutely know your pupils best, so just think of us as your handy starting point.
An additional line for…
newcomers 	cherrypickers 	architects
Maybe you’re looking for
ways to develop your
practice and confidence, or
perhaps you’re getting to
grips with a new subject. Our
resources give you a strong
foundation that means you
get there faster.
All our resources can be
adapted to your class,
location or approach. And
using our intuitive AI tools,
you can tailor anything – or
create something new – in
minutes.
All of our resources are
built on pedagogical
evidence of what works,
supporting planning at
every level.
8

-- 8 of 19 --

Talking about our resources
Opening statement
Designed by experts, our resources give you a strong starting point – whether you’re
creating new lessons, refreshing your approach, or solving a last-minute challenge – and
they’re all completely yours to adapt.
Expanded description
Save hours of planning each week, with free resources that help you prepare high-quality
classroom teaching for all your pupils. Created by UK curriculum and subject experts,
they’re quality-assured and tested by teachers.
Every lesson includes teacher-led videos to support your teaching as well as
downloadable quizzes, worksheets and slides. Make them your own: grab a handful of
slides, or borrow the whole deck. Add or remove scaffolding. Introduce local context. Plus,
we help with keywords, common misconceptions, and share tips from expert teachers to
give you a strong foundation.
Browse by key stage or topic to find what you need fast. Our resources are part of wider
curriculum sequences, to support your planning at every level, from curriculum design to
lessons.
An additional line for…
newcomers 	cherrypickers 	architects
Our lesson resources also
include valuable information
to help you prepare, such as
keywords, common
misconceptions and tips
from experienced teachers.
Search by key stage or topic
to find what you need, fast.
Plus you can use our
intuitive AI tools to tailor our
resources – or create
something new – in minutes.
Feel confident in what you
are using for planning with
resources that are aligned
to the national curriculum
and part of wider
curriculum sequences.
9

-- 9 of 19 --

Talking about our curriculum plans
Opening statement
All of our curriculum plans have been expert designed, quality assured, and tested by
teachers across the country. It’s all aligned to the national curriculum and we also cover
exam boards at secondary. So you can feel confident in what you use for your planning.
Expanded description
Every school’s approach to curriculum design is different. Whether you are starting from
scratch or refreshing your existing curricula, it can be helpful to see examples to inspire
your own. Our interactive curriculum plans could be just the inspiration you need for your
long or short-term planning.
Use our plans to explore our sequences, each developed by leading subject experts from
across the country, to build your knowledge of curriculum planning; or use them as
inspiration for your own planning, seeing where you could use our teaching resources to
update what you’ve already got.
Each subject is based on its own set of principles, and we’ve included detail on the
thinking, structure and focus behind our plans, so you can feel confident that what you’re
using is relevant and high-quality.
You can also use the curriculum plans to see what resources are coming for subjects later
this academic year.
An additional line for…
newcomers 	cherrypickers 	architects
See how others tackle
planning, and feel confident
you’re teaching the right
content at the right time.
Save time searching by
filtering to see only the year
groups and threads that are
relevant to you. You also
have the option to see
lessons connected by
‘threads’: repeated ideas
that run through key stages
to build learning over time.
Use our interactive
curriculum plans as models
and inspiration, with
engaging, relevant content,
when designing your own
school curriculum.
10

-- 10 of 19 --

Talking about our AI tools
Opening statement
Transform your lesson prep with our AI tools - national curriculum-aligned,
classroom-ready, and built to help you create, adapt, and enhance your lessons in
minutes, while keeping quality high and content safe.
Expanded description
Our free AI tools are designed to save you time while keeping quality high. Your AI lesson
assistant, Aila, helps you create and adapt lessons in minutes through a collaborative,
step-by-step process. You can effortlessly personalise for reading age, add context for
your pupils, and download fully editable plans.
You can also enhance any lessons you already have by instantly generating glossaries,
quizzes, comprehension tasks, and more, at the click of a button.
You can trust in our AI. Unlike generic tools, ours are built for you - powered by our
national curriculum-aligned library and expert-reviewed to give you UK classroom-ready,
reliable, and safe results.
Our AI tools are here to help you plan faster and smarter - not to take over your process.
You stay in control, using AI to spark ideas, tailor lessons, and save time so you can focus
on your pupils.
An additional line for…
newcomers 	cherrypickers 	architects
With our AI tools, you can
feel confident in the
classroom - creating and
adapting national
curriculum-aligned lessons
and resources in minutes, so
you spend less time worrying
where to start and more
time focusing on your pupils.
With our AI tools, you can
create and refresh
high-quality, national
curriculum-aligned lessons
and resources for your
classroom in minutes -
saving you time while
keeping your teaching fresh
and engaging.
With our AI tools, you can
raise the quality of
teaching across your team
- co-creating national
curriculum-aligned lessons
quickly and supporting
others with
classroom-ready, reliable
resources.
11

-- 11 of 19 --

AI tool language: dos and don’ts
Avoid 	Do
Aila’s
role
Overstating Aila’s role: Don’t
describe Aila as doing a teacher’s
work or taking over their
tasks/responsibilities.
Implying Aila leads lesson
creation: Avoid phrases that suggest
Aila is the main creator or planner of
lessons.
Examples to avoid:
● “Aila creates your lessons.”
● “Aila designs lessons for
teachers.”
Keep teachers firmly in control: Make
it clear that teachers make every
decision about what to teach and how.
Position Aila as empowering, not
replacing: Emphasise that Aila is the
teacher's planning partner, not a
substitute for their expertise.
Highlight customisation: That Aila
provides a starting point that teachers
adapt to their own teaching style, needs
and pupils.
Example phrases:
● “You guide Aila to create the
content you want and need.”
● “Aila provides a solid foundation to
build from and tailor to the needs
of your pupils.”
Aila’s
output
Overpromising completeness:
Don’t say Aila “creates everything
you need” or that the resources are
fully finished.
Implying polished, ready-to-teach
materials: Avoid suggesting that
images, slide decks or formatting are
final as some elements may still
require teacher tweaks.
Example phrases to avoid:
● “Aila delivers a fully finished
lesson pack ready to go.”
● “No further changes needed.”
Highlight speed and quality:
Emphasise that Aila quickly produces
national curriculum-aligned and UK
classroom-ready, editable starting
points.
Show flexibility and teacher
customisation: Make clear the resources
can and should be adapted.
Example phrasing:
● “Creates quality lessons and
resources in minutes.”
● “Customise lessons to the needs of
your pupils or context.”
● “Download in multiple editable
formats to adapt with ease.”
12

-- 12 of 19 --

Talking about pupils using Oak
Opening statement
All the units and lessons available to you can be sent directly to pupils to complete in their
own tailored area. Set homework, revision and keep absent pupils' learning on track,
without adding to your workload.
Expanded description
It only takes seconds to select and send resources such as videos, worksheets and
quizzes to your pupils for them to complete.
We’ve designed an area on our website especially for them, having researched and tested
it extensively to make sure it’s easy to use, motivational, and that they can continue to
learn effectively outside of school. Pupils can take a starter quiz to check prior knowledge,
watch a video of the lesson being taught by a teacher, and then take an exit quiz to check
what they’ve learnt; they’ll be given real-time feedback on their answers too and can use
a hint function if needed.
Then you can see their progress with our easy results-sharing function. You’ll be able to
see how much of the video was watched, details of quiz scores and attempts, and
whether or not the worksheet was downloaded. All so you can feel confident on which
areas your pupils need more support in.
13

-- 13 of 19 --

Style guide
14

-- 14 of 19 --

A-Z
academic year
refers to the school year; use initial year in full and then abbreviate second year followed by
a forward slash:
2022/23 academic year
AI
Acceptable to use the acronym without expanding on meaning. Always capitals.
Aila
treat as a proper noun; never
AILA
AI lesson assistant
Aila’s namesake; alternatively use
AI-powered lesson assistant to provide more context;
sentence case; never
lesson planning assistant
Americanisms
when referring to American spellings; treat as proper noun
arm’s-length body
sentence case, reduce to acronym after initial use (ALB); note that gov are inconsistent on
this; we can flex but should always be consistent across a single document
board vs Board
always lower case unless it’s part of a proper title: so upper case for the ‘Oak’s Board’, but
lower case for ‘board meeting’
calendar year
refers to the year running January-December; style in full, e.g.
2024; when describing range,
use initial year in full and then abbreviate second year followed by a forward slash:
2022-23
academic year
refers to the school year;
curriculum
what we use when we refer to one course of study, eg
English curriculum; the plural is
curricula
curriculum partners
how we refer to the schools and organisations we’re working with to develop our curriculum;
always lowercase
curriculum plans
Sentence case
Dates
● in marketing material:
○ Style as: Thursday 1st January 2025.
○ when challenged for space, remove day and abbreviate month to shorthand;
15

-- 15 of 19 --

● for Annual Report and Accounts:
○ Style as: 1 January 2025.
● all: year ranges
○ Style as: 2024-25. Use initial year in full and then abbreviate final year followed
by a hyphen.
Department for Education (DfE)
Use ‘the’ before Department for Education; but not before DfE.
Always a lowercase f in the acronym.
early career teacher
sentence case;
ECT is a commonly-used abbreviation in the sector; replaced
newly qualified
teacher
early years (EYFS)
sentence case when used in full; opt for the acronym as this is common use in the sector
edtech
not EdTech, or Ed-Tech.
education sector
not system; we work with schools and partners from across the sector.
exit quiz
full curriculum package
A term used to describe the set of lesson planning and teaching resources we procure from
curriculum partners
gaps in knowledge
we talk about addressing gaps in knowledge or understanding, instead of
catch-up
GCSE, GCSEs
no full stops between the initials, no apostrophe in the plural
guardrails
one word
half term
no hyphen needed, unless followed by a noun; e.g.
your half-term plans
headteacher
one word; you can use
head if the context is clear
high quality vs high-quality
should use a hyphen when followed by a noun;
our resources are of a high quality, we offer
high-quality resources
independent public body
but if you have to use it in formal documents, use
arm’s-length body
16

-- 16 of 19 --

Job titles
Treat as a proper noun when attached to a name (e.g. Bob, Headteacher), or when calling
out a specific title (e.g. We are looking for an Operational Manager).
Generic titles should be treated as a normal noun. (E.g. Bob is a headteacher; let me ask my
assistant).
key learning points
key stage
two words, sentence case, followed by a numeral; capitalised when abbreviated, e.g.
KS4;
when using in body text, we use hyphens to indicate range and avoid repetition, e.g. KS1-2;
but can use forward slashes when using alone (e.g. labelling a list a subjects) e.g.
KS1/2
keyword
one word
learning cycle
lesson planning and teaching resources
how we refer to what we offer teachers; can be abbreviated to
planning and teaching
resources or
teaching resources
large language models
sentence case; shorten to
LLM after initial use
lesson titles
should be in sentence case e.g.
Poetry about place and home; the exception to this is when
referring to texts, which should be in title case and styled in apostrophes: e.g.
Jack and the
Beanstalk': reading and writing
licence and licensing
licence is a noun. Licensing is an adjective.
E.g.
…on an open licence. …
our open-licensed resources.
multi-academy trust
with a hyphen; always lowercase unless part of a name
national curriculum for England
should be in sentence case; commonly abbreviated to
the national curriculum
non-departmental public body
Sentence case. Reduce to acronym (NDPB) after initial use
Oak or Oak National Academy
abbreviate our name, either following an initial use of ‘Oak National Academy’, or
immediately if the brand name is already visible alongside the copy e.g. in a logo; generally
however we should use first person (
we and
our), unless writing formally.
Do not use: ONA, Oak Academy, The National Academy, The Oak National Academy
17

-- 17 of 19 --

Open Government Licence
treat as a proper noun; abbreviate to
OGL after initial use
primary
sentence case, unless it’s part of a school name.
prompt (AI)
treat as a common noun
pupils
instead of students or learners
retrieval-augmented generation
sentence case; shorten to RAG after initial use
SATs
no full stops between the initials, no apostrophe
school subjects
sentence case for all except languages and acronyms:
maths, French, RE, science, English
school terms (autumn, spring, summer)
treat as common nouns; there are exceptions to this however, use sensible judgement and
style with consistency
secondary
sentence case, unless it’s part of a school name
sentence case vs title case in headings, titles and products
always opt for sentence case; title case is a barrier for accessibility
slide decks
instead of
presentations,
powerpoints etc;
slides can be used informally
special educational needs / and disabilities (SEND)
sentence case, capitals for the acronym
starter quiz
or ‘let’s get started with a quiz’ for pupils
time
use am/pm in lowercase; when on the hour, always style with a single numeral e.g.
5pm;
when past the hour, style with a colon e.g.
5:30pm; we use hyphens to indicate time ranges,
and use singular instances of am/pm: e.g.
3:30-5pm, 8am-1pm
worksheet
not
sheet
18

-- 18 of 19 --

year groups
sentence case, two words; again sentence case when describing specific year groups,
followed by a number e.g.
year 8; unless when abbreviated (use only when space is short),
e.g.
Y8; we use hyphens to indicate ranges, e.g.
years 7-11.
19

-- 19 of 19 --

